welcome back to movietella
today i'm going to show you a 2010
post-apocalyptic action film titled the
book of eli
30 years after a nuclear holocaust eli
travels on foot across the wasteland of
the former united states
he demonstrates uncanny survival and
fighting skills such as hunting wildlife
and defeating a group of highwaymen
searching for water he arrives in a
ramshackle town ruled by a warlord named
carnegie who seeks to control the people
through the power of a certain book
which his henchmen have been unable to
find
eli barters with a store owner the
engineer to recharge the battery of his
portable music player
at the town bar he is attacked by a gang
of bikers but swiftly kills them all
impressed carnegie invites eli to join
his employ but eli declines
realizing eli is a literate man like
himself carnegie forces him to stay the
night under guard
after carnegie's blind mistress claudia
brings eli food and water carnegie
orders her daughter solara to seduce eli
but he rebuffs her
solara sees eli has a book and he offers
to share his food saying grace before
they eat
in the morning carnegie overhears solara
repeat the prayer to her mother and
realizes eli has the book he has been
seeking a bible
eli sneaks away but carnegie and his
henchmen confront him in the street
when eli refuses to give up the book
carnegie orders him killed the ensuing
battle leaves eli untouched but many
henchmen dead and carnegie shot in the
leg
solara catches up to eli and leads him
to the town's water supply hoping to
accompany him on his travels but he
traps her inside and continues alone
solara escapes and is ambushed by two
bandits who attempt to rape her but eli
reappears and kills them
continuing toward the west coast eli
explains his mission his book is the
last remaining copy of the bible as all
other copies were intentionally
destroyed following the nuclear war
he says that he was led to the book by a
voice in his head directing him to
travel westward to a place it would be
safe and assuring that he would be
protected and guided on his journey
at an isolated house eli and solara fall
into a trap but manage to allay the
suspicions of the residents george and
martha who invite them in for tea
realizing that the couple are cannibals
eli and solara attempt to leave justice
carnegie and his men arrive
in the ensuing shootout george martha
and many of carnegie's men are killed
and eli and solara are captured
threatening to kill solara carnegie
forces eli to surrender the bible before
shooting him and leaving him for dead
departing with his caravan
solara escapes destroying one truck with
a hand grenade and driving back in
another to find eli
with his remaining vehicle low on fuel
carnegie returns to town
solara finds eli and they drive until
they reach the golden gate bridge and
road to alcatraz island where they find
a group intent on preserving what
remains of literature and music
eli tells the guards that he has a copy
of the bible
taken inside eli is revealed to be blind
and
dictates the new king james version of
the bible from memory to lombardy the
sanctuary's leader
in the town the engineer opens eli's
locked bible which carnegie discovers is
in braille
claudia feigning ignorance of braille
tells carnegie that his leg wound has
become infected and the loss of his
enforcers has led the people to run amok
at the sanctuary eli has died but not
before reciting the entire book
a printing press begins producing copies
of the bible and lombardi places one on
a bookshelf between the tanakh and the
quran
offered sanctuary on alcatraz solara
chooses instead to return home taking up
eli's machete and other possessions
if you enjoyed this video subscribe so
you can watch more videos like this